The contents of this directory are for those wishing to develop/extend
the gSoap-generated SOAP bindings that the steering library uses.  If
all you want to do is build and use the steering library then you can
ignore this directory and its contents.

The definitions of the interfaces that are used are in the all_hdrs.h
header file (which itself includes other header files for each
Web/Grid service that the library talks to).  This header file is
processed by the gSoap soapcpp2 tool in order to generate the bindings
in the form of the files:
  soapC.c
  soapClient.c
  soapH.h
  soapStub.h
  *.nsmap

The current bindings have been generated under linux using gSoap
2.7.13.  To generate bindings yourself, you will need to install gSoap
and then run:

$ /path/to/soapcpp2 -c all_hdrs.h

A Makefile is provided in this directory.  Edit it to point to where
soapcpp2 is located on your machine and then simple run 'make'.  To
move the correct files to the correct places in the main build tree
run 'make install'.  Once this has been done a 'make clean' will
remove all the extra files created in the build step.

If you are changing the version of gSoap that is used then you will
also need to update the 'include/stdsoap2.h' and 'src/stdsoap2.c'
files.  To do this you will need to slightly modify the standard
gSoap-supplied versions of those files - search for sections bookended
with /* REG START */ and /* REG END */ in the versions of those files
supplied with the steering library and copy the relevent bits to the
equivalent places in the new versions of the files.

Once new bindings have been generated, the source files need to be
copied to the 'src' directory and the header files to the 'include'
directory. Any one of the generated *.nsmap files (they are all
identical) should be copied to 'include/soapRealityGrid.nsmap'.
